what is up guys karma medic here welcome
back to another dose today I want to
make a video about my here interview in
kcl talking about how my first year was
doing kcl medicine and maybe like the
top 5 games that I really enjoyed about
KCl and hopefully that helps make your
decision if you're trying applying KCl
for medicine or if you just want to know
more about the experience there so yeah
guys I just finished my first year of
Casey on bed I had my final exams on the
22nd of May so it's been a couple of
days now I'm currently in Toronto I'm
here to do research for the summer
period I'm gonna be working in a lab
doing research studying colitis I'm
really really excited for that and I
think I'll make a couple of videos on
that over the summer too but for now
let's get into this video and talk about
KCl and the top 5 things I really
enjoyed during my first year of kcl med
alright guys so the first thing I want
to talk about is how and that to me is
taught at KCl and it's taught between a
mix of lectures workshops and cadaveric
dissection so the lectures we had a
really really wonderful professor his
name was dr. Alistair hunter he was
extremely energetic and I think he
bought the material across to us really
really well and you learn through
didactic learning it's kind of similar
to what you would expect from high
school so then for the workshops you
would go into what is essentially a lab
one of the most memorable ones for me
was when we studied the spinal cord and
the human brain so during those
workshops you have someone who's leading
it and they ask you questions you have a
worksheet and you sort of work through
those questions with the actual
anatomical specimens in front of you but
yeah guys really what I want to talk
about is the Canterbury dissection
cadaveric dissections honestly are
amazing at kacl I don't know if you're
excited about cut a begger dissection I
don't know if you think it's scary or
you think it's weird but honestly the
citing a human cadaver is one of the
most amazing experiences I've had in my
life and you have one body shared
between your tutor group and it's a very
respectful process you're led by an
anatomy teacher who sort of guides you
through the process but your anatomy
tutor really doesn't do any of the
actual dissection he or she doesn't do
any of the actual cutting or cleaning up
that's all left to the students so you
really get a very first-hand experience
of actually dissecting a human body
exploring all the different organs
identifying
and structures I mean you get to hold
the human brain in your hand honestly
that is a surreal experience the anatomy
that you learn in the dissecting room
you will never forget it's the
equivalent of reading a textbook or
watching a YouTube video on steroids all
around you or everywhere there are just
like what I call pots which are human
specimens in pots of formaldehyde to
preserve the human body parts that are
in there and those are pieces of the
human body that have been cut or
dissected in a certain way in order to
show you a specific thing for that part
okay enough about Anatomy honestly I
could talk about it all day let's move
on to the second thing that I want to
talk about which is the technology and
facilities at Kings so something I was
really impressed by when I came to
King's was how much technology was
integrated into the course all of our
lectures are stored online you can view
them at anytime anywhere download them
speed them up whatever so it's really
easy to review anything that you missed
in a lecture it's really easy to access
that information whenever you need but
better than that is the Chandler Sale
building if you haven't heard of the
Chandler Sale building it's sort of like
a practical Hospital simulation
environment for medical students to
learn and practice clinical skills so a
lot of our clinical skills workshops
will have in there anytime we have a
simulated patient who comes in
everything we learned from taking blood
pressures to giving subcutaneous and
intramuscular injections our hand
washing techniques we also learned how
to open up a sterile field how to open
up medical packets that contain
instruments and tools that was honestly
really cool as well anything where we
learned the practical side of medicine
anything that would simulate a hospital
environment I found the most interesting
all of that will be done in the Chandler
sail building on top of that there's a
lot of human dummies these are very very
expensive human replicas that can sort
of imitate symptoms or pathologies that
a real patient might have in our
workshops in the labs there's like TV
screens everywhere and there are like
cameras that they have at the front
anything that that camera sees is
projected to all of the different
screens in the room and I found that
really cool I certainly didn't have that
in university during my first degree
so speaking more about the facilities
and I guess this kind of ties into
anatomy as well is the Gordon museum if
you haven't heard of the Gord
Museum definite go Google that it's
basically a Museum of human specimens
and it's right on guys campus see Gordon
Museum has about 8,000 specimens each
specimen has an accompanying paragraph
in a book so you can read what the
pathology is and what this particular
specimen is trying to show honestly it's
really amazing if you don't know what
I'm talking about if I haven't put this
across properly go google the Gordon
Museum at kacl okay the third thing that
I want to talk about is the variability
in teaching at Kings so in Kings were
taught in a lot of different ways and
those will range from lectures tutorials
workshops cadaveric dissection online
teaching and we even have like big
practical days for example for basic
life support and First Aid training so
I'm gonna go through those a little bit
to give you an idea of what each one is
like so the lectures at Kings in your
first year a lot of them are in a
lecture theatre called Greenwood I found
the seats really uncomfortable and so I
stopped attending lectures I would just
watch them all online it's exactly what
you'd expect there's a professor up at
the front of the class with a huge
PowerPoint slide and they just sort of
speak at you
moving onto tutorials tutorials I found
really useful so for tutorials you
actually had to complete a workshop or
sorry you guys had to complete a
worksheet before you attended the
tutorial and that was really useful
because it actually forced me to sit
down read the material that I was
supposed to be learning engage in that
material and make sure I knew what I was
going to say because during the tutorial
the teacher will ask people questions
and if you don't know your stuff then
it's pretty embarrassing if you have any
questions you can ask the teacher
directly you're in a small room with
only your tutor group so anywhere
between 10 and 12 students and it's a
good way to engage in conversation and
just ask as many questions as you have
workshops like I mentioned previously
have the actual physical specimens in
front of you and you go through a
worksheet together in the class so you
do this with other students and this
isn't only in your tutorial group it's
in multiple tutorial groups you get to
mix and match with other students as
well then there's the online lectures
now online lectures I wasn't a big fan
of because the professor is recording
those online lectures were clearly
sitting in front of a microphone just
very monotonous ly reading a script it
doesn't make for engaging content
something else that I forgot to mention
is the
interprofessional education so in kcl
medicine we have a couple of asks or
assignments that we do as
interprofessional which means that
medicine students are put in a group
with nurses physiotherapists you get to
group up with people from many different
faculties and kings and you sort of use
for different learning experiences and
different course knowledge and material
to make a presentation or an assignment
together that's enough about teaching at
Kings I want to move on to talk about
the social life and location Kings
medicine if you don't know is done at
the guys campus which is a London Bridge
it's sort of in the heart of London
right underneath the shard I'm sure
you've heard of that before I'm just
honestly there's always so so much to do
at King's guys bar if you aren't
familiar with it before you go you'll
definitely be familiar with it by the
end of first year it's the main bar for
medics and other students studying life
sciences like biochemistry chemistry
biology whatever and that's where a lot
of people meet to have drinks and go for
their social events throughout the week
the social life I Kings is honestly
being really great if you want to be
social there are a lot of different
activities and opportunities there to do
so is something going on every night so
don't stress about the social life also
food options there's pretty much
anything you want we're right next to a
very busy high street and there's also
this place called Oro market which is
sort of like a farmers market I guess
there's just a lot of options for where
you want to go for food where you want
to get a drink for being in the heart of
London there's a pretty nice amount of
greenery and the guys campus it's
basically one central courtyard with a
couple of big trees and grass but
honestly I find that that really helps
break up the monotonous building vibe
that you tend to get when you're in the
centre of London so I do really
appreciate that when it's sunny outside
you'll find all the students laying out
there having picnics eating talking
whatever just an excuse to be outside in
the Sun well so our class size is pretty
huge I think Kings has the largest
medical school class size in Europe our
current class size is about 450 students
I'd say about 40 to 50 of those are
graduate students like myself if you
don't meet the right people in your
first week or you're not necessarily
getting along with the people that
you're surrounded with there's so much
opportunity to meet other people the
very last thing that I want to talk
about is the cultural diversity at Kings
so I'm a very international person I
find cultural diversity something that's
really key and really
or tend to university life anytime that
i can surround myself with people who
are different than me who have had a
different upbringing have different
world perspectives I find that that's a
really good opportunity to learn and
Kings does a really good job of that
they accept students from all kinds of
backgrounds all different diversities
ethnicities whatever you name it so I
know I've only finished my first year at
Kings I really really enjoyed my time
there it's been such a fun year and I
honestly could recommend this very
highly to anyone applying if you have
the grades for it if you think you'll
enjoy your time in London then really
Kings I would say is one of the top
schools to apply to really looking
forward to next year when we start
clinical placements there will be so
much more time at the hospital and in GP
practices where I'm gonna be talking to
patients gonna be meeting them
diagnosing them taking histories it's
all mostly gonna be such a blast and I
can't wait to get started I've been
talking to a lot of you guys on the
student room thank you so much for
sending me your questions please keep
sending more I love answering them I
love trying to help out if you have any
video suggestions leave them down below
if you have any friends you think might
benefit from my videos or who have
questions about medicine applications
anything at all send them my Channel
show them these videos I wish you the
best of luck in your applications your
interviews your UK account whatever it
is you're doing
if you have any questions please leave
them in a comment down below DM me
message me whatever like this video
subscribe to my channel if you want to
see more videos I'll be making the next
one soon so keep an eye out for that
thanks for your time guys have a great
day and I'll see you in the next one
peace